Copy/pasted from: http://www.inspiredtaste.net/24593/essential-pancake-recipe/

The Dry Ingredients
Flour: Use all-purpose flour or whole wheat. A combination of the both is nice, too.
Sugar: We use granulated sugar, but you could experiment with brown sugar. Brown sugar will make the pancakes a little more moist.
Baking Powder: Baking powder makes the pancakes so light and fluffy.
Salt: We like to use 3/4 teaspoon of coarse salt. It balances the sugar nicely and brings out lots of flavor in the pancakes.
The Wet Ingredients
Milk: We usually stick to reduced fat milk, since that’s what we have in the fridge, but whole milk or non-dairy milk (like almond or coconut milk) will work, too.
Melted Butter: You can’t beat the taste of butter for this, but we’ve found that melted coconut oil is really tasty.
One Egg: The egg adds structure and helps with how light and fluffy the pancakes become.
Vanilla Extract: Vanilla adds sweetness and depth of flavor. You could try other extracts, too. Almond extract would be pretty delicious.
How to Make Fluffy PancakesDo you see how fluffy they are, look at all those air pockets. If you want pancakes that are light and fluffy, make sure you read our tips below.

For Fluffy Pancakes, Don’t Over-mix
Over-mixing pancake batter is a common mistake — it makes them heavy and flat, not fluffy. To prevent this, mix dry and wet ingredients separately at first then combine just before cooking. By the way, these tips apply to waffles and muffins, too. We use this same strategy when making our favorite blueberry muffins.

Don't Over Mix the Batter

Once you’re ready to cook, combine the two mixes — we use a fork. Stir until you no longer see dry clumps of flour. There can be some small lumps, though.

Easy Waffle RecipeYOU MAY ALSO LIKE: This Easy Homemade Waffles Recipe that makes waffles that are perfectly crispy on the outside and tender on the inside. This is one of our absolute favorite recipes!

Now, Adapt It Based on What You Love
This is our basic recipe. We use it often as is, but have used it as a base for other recipes. Add what you love. Here are a few suggestions:

Sprinkle a handful of berries, nuts or chocolate chips into the batter. (We love adding fresh blueberries for blueberry pancakes or mashed and sliced banana for banana pancakes)
Layer a few thin slices of strawberry or banana onto the wet batter once added to the skillet. Then, flip. (We added banana to these spiced, buttermilk and banana pancakes)
Add lemon zest or spices, such as cinnamon, nutmeg or allspice (see our cinnamon-spiced fluffy pancakes recipe with a cinnamon roll glaze)
Try replacing some of the all-purpose flour with whole wheat flour (see our easy, fluffy whole wheat pancakes recipe here).
Add a few spoonfuls of flax seeds, oats, or reduce the sugar.